Academic Editor: Francesco
Cauteruccio
Received: 12 November 2025
Revised: 29 November 2025
Accepted: 3 December 2025
Published: 9 December 2025
Citation: Sun, W.; Shen, Q.; Gao, Y.;
Mao, Q.; Qi, T.; Xu, S. Objective over
Architecture: Fraud Detection Under
Extreme Imbalance in Bank Account
Opening. Computation 2025, 13, 290.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
computation13120290
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Article
Objective over Architecture: Fraud Detection Under Extreme
Imbalance in Bank Account Opening
Wenxi Sun 1,†
, Qiannan Shen 2,†, Yijun Gao 1, Qinkai Mao 3, Tongsong Qi 4 and Shuo Xu 5,*
1
Krieger School of Arts and Sciences, Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC 20001, USA;
wsun41@alumni.jh.edu (W.S.); ygao54@alumni.jh.edu (Y.G.)
2
Graduate School of Art and Science, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215, USA; iamqb@bu.edu
3
Weissman School of Arts and Sciences, Baruch College, City University of New York,
New York, NY 10010, USA; maoqink@gmail.com
4
Charles V. Schaefer Jr. School of Engineering and Science, Stevens Institute of Technology,
Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA; ricardochyi@gmail.com
5
Computer Science and Engineering Department, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA
*
Correspondence: shx009@ucsd.edu
†
These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract
Fraud in financial services—especially account opening fraud—poses major operational
and reputational risks. Static rules struggle to adapt to evolving tactics, missing novel
patterns and generating excessive false positives. Machine learning promises adaptive
detection, but deployment faces severe class imbalance: in the NeurIPS 2022 BAF Base
benchmark used here, fraud prevalence is 1.10%. Standard metrics (accuracy, f1_weighted)
can look strong while doing little for the minority class. We compare Logistic Regression,
SVM (RBF), Random Forest, LightGBM, and a GRU model on N = 1,000,000 accounts
under a unified preprocessing pipeline. All models are trained to minimize their loss
function, while configurations are selected on a stratified development set using validation-
weighted F1-score f1_weighted. For the four classical models, class weighting in the loss
(class_weight ∈{None, ‘balanced’}) is treated as a hyperparameter and tuned. Similarly,
the GRU is trained with a fixed class-weighted CrossEntropy loss that up-weights fraud
cases. This ensures that both model families leverage weighted training objectives, while
their final hyperparameters are consistently selected by the f1_weighted metric. Despite
similar AUCs and aligned feature importance across families, the classical models converge
to high-precision, low-recall solutions (1–6% fraud recall), whereas the GRU recovers 78%
recall at 5% precision (AUC = 0.8800). Under extreme imbalance, objective choice and
operating point matter at least as much as architecture.
Keywords: fraud detection; bank account opening fraud; imbalanced classification;
precision–recall trade-off; gated recurrent unit
1. Introduction
Fraud in the financial services sector is a persistent and evolving threat, extending
far beyond transaction-level scams. A particularly costly and growing danger is bank
account opening fraud, where criminals use stolen or synthetic identities to establish new
accounts [1]. These accounts then serve as conduits for money laundering, unauthorized
credit access, and other financial crimes, costing institutions billions annually and posing
significant operational and reputational risks [2]. These challenges are not unique to bank-
Computation 2025, 13, 290
https://doi.org/10.3390/computation13120290


Computation 2025, 13, 290
2 of 17
ing; the insurance industry faces analogous problems in claims fraud and identity-related
schemes, which present the same data-driven challenges [3–5].
Historically, the first line of defense was traditional detection frameworks built on
static, hard-coded rules (e.g., flagging mismatched addresses). The core challenge of these
systems is their rigidity. As fraud tactics evolve, these static rules fail to adapt, leading to
a dual failure: they miss novel fraudulent patterns while simultaneously overwhelming
investigators with a high volume of false positives. The velocity of modern digital finance
renders these manual or static systems infeasible, creating an urgent need for automated,
adaptive solutions [6].
To overcome these limitations, machine learning (ML) has been widely adopted for its
ability to learn subtle, complex patterns from heterogeneous data [7]. These models are now
critical components of modern FinTech platforms, often deployed on cloud infrastructure
to provide the low-latency predictions essential for real-time decisions. However, applying
ML in this domain introduces its own formidable challenge: severe class imbalance [8]. In
the dataset for this study, fraudulent applications constitute only 1.10% of all cases. This
imbalance creates a paradox: models trained to optimize standard metrics (like accuracy or
weighted-F1) are incentivized to predict the majority (non-fraud) class, creating a misleading
illusion of performance while failing to detect the very events they were built to find [9].
The application of machine learning to financial fraud is well-documented, with ex-
tensive surveys highlighting the persistent challenge of class imbalance and rare event
detection [10,11]. These comprehensive reviews emphasize a critical pitfall in fraud analyt-
ics: the reliance on accuracy-focused evaluation metrics, which can mask poor performance
on the minority class. To combat this, the literature has proposed various remediation
strategies, ranging from data-level techniques to algorithm-level approaches such as cost-
sensitive learning and anomaly detection [12]. However, while these individual meth-
ods are well-established, there is often ambiguity regarding the comparative impact of
the model architecture versus the optimization objective in extremely imbalanced settings
(<1% prevalence). This study builds upon this literature by isolating these factors; rather
than proposing a novel complex architecture, we provide a controlled evaluation demon-
strating that the choice of objective function outweighs the choice of model family.
This paper provides a rigorous empirical comparison of classical and deep learning
approaches on a large-scale, public benchmark for bank account fraud detection [13]. We
systematically evaluate a suite of models: Logistic Regression (LR) [14], Support Vector
Machine (SVM) [15], Random Forest (RF) [16], LightGBM (LGBM) [17], and a custom
Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) network [18]. We specifically investigate how these models
behave under a common hyperparameter-tuning rule while retaining the default training
objectives of their respective Python 3.12.12 implementations. Concretely, all models share
the same preprocessing pipeline and are tuned on a stratified development set using the
validation-weighted F1-score (f1_weighted) as the selection metric, while each model
optimises the default loss provided by its underlying Python function, with class weighting
enabled when selected during hyperparameter search.
Our results demonstrate two key findings. First, we confirm that all classical models
optimized for standard metrics show limited efficacy, identifying almost no fraudulent
cases (1–6% recall). Second, we show that the GRU model, trained with a class-weighted
loss function, successfully overcomes this challenge, identifying 78% of all fraud. However,
this success exposes the central, practical challenge of this domain: a severe precision–recall
trade-off [19]. The high recall is achieved at the cost of extremely low precision (5%),
creating a significant operational burden of false positives.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
3 of 17
1.1. Motivation and Research Questions
We frame the study around three research questions (RQs) that the industry faces
under extreme imbalance:
1.
RQ1: How do classical models (LR, SVM, RF, LGBM) behave when tuned and selected
using f1_weighted on a 1.10% prevalence dataset, and what failure modes emerge for
the minority class?
2.
RQ2: To what extent can a class-weighted objective (here, with a GRU) recover
minority-class recall, and what precision (false-positive workload) trade-offs does
this entail?
3.
RQ3: Do model families converge on the same high-signal features, implying that
objective choice—not signal scarcity—drives minority-class performance gaps?
1.2. Contributions
This paper makes four contributions aligned with those questions:
•
A controlled, apples-to-apples comparison on the 1M-example BAF “Base” benchmark
with a unified preprocessing pipeline across classical models and a GRU architecture.
•
An explicit demonstration of the objective-induced failure:
using f1_weighted
as the selection criterion yields negligible fraud recall despite apparently strong
aggregate scores.
•
Evidence that class-weighted training substantially increases recall (to 78%) while
quantifying the implied review burden (low precision); we report simple workload
proxies (e.g., FPs per TP) alongside standard metrics.
•
A cross-family feature importance concordance showing that all models surface
the same core signals (e.g., name_email_similarity, velocity_24h), supporting the
claim that objective choice—not feature discovery—explains the gap.
1.3. Terminology and Evaluation Framing
Throughout, we use operational cost to denote the human-review workload implied by
false positives at the chosen operating threshold. While ROC-AUC remains informative for
ranking, at 1.10% prevalence we emphasize precision–recall behavior and report weighted-
F1 only to reflect legacy selection practices that can mislead in this setting.
1.4. Scope and Limitations
The focus is account opening fraud on the BAF synthetic benchmark; we do not model
post-opening transactional streams, cost-sensitive training beyond class weighting, or pro-
duction controls (e.g., case management, feedback loops). As the dataset is synthetic, exter-
nal validity may vary by institution and geography; nevertheless, the imbalance-driven phe-
nomena we document are generic to credit, banking, and insurance onboarding contexts.
Finally, through a comparative feature importance analysis, we show that all
models—both the failing classical ones and the successful GRU—demonstrate a high
degree of consensus on the most predictive features, such as name_email_similarity and
velocity_24h. This provides the critical insight that the failure of the classical models was
not one of feature identification, but one of objective. This paper’s contribution is a rigorous
analysis of this trade-off, demonstrating how, in an imbalanced domain, the problem shifts
from one of detection (recall) to one of operational cost (precision).
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 details the dataset,
preprocessing pipeline, and model architectures. Section 3 presents the comparative
performance and feature importance analysis. Section 4 discusses the implications of
these findings.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
4 of 17
2. Methods
This section presents the methodological framework developed to systematically
evaluate the effectiveness of classical and deep learning models for a highly imbalanced
financial fraud detection task [6]. We begin by describing the dataset and the robust pre-
processing pipeline constructed to handle mixed numerical and categorical data types.
Next, we outline the architectures and optimization procedures for traditional machine
learning (LR, SVM, RF, LGBM) and an advanced recurrent neural model (GRU), including
the specific hyperparameter tuning strategies employed. We then define the quantita-
tive evaluation metrics, with a focus on statistical validation via bootstrapping, which is
essential for imbalanced classification. Finally, we detail the model-specific and model-
agnostic techniques used to compute and compare feature importance, a critical step for
model interpretability.
2.1. Data Preprocessing and Preparation
This study utilizes the Bank Account Fraud (BAF) dataset, a large-scale, privacy-
preserving benchmark for tabular fraud detection released at NeurIPS 2022 [13]. We use
the “Base” variant, which contains approximately one million (N = 1,000,000) synthetic
bank account applications generated from a real-world, anonymized source. Each record
is described by a range of features and includes a binary label, fraud_bool (1: fraud;
0: non-fraud), to indicate if the application was fraudulent.
It is important to clarify the provenance of this data. The BAF dataset is synthetic,
generated using a tabular Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) trained on real-world
transaction data to preserve privacy while maintaining statistical fidelity. As a synthetic
dataset, it avoids the privacy constraints of real banking data but relies on the assumption
that the GAN successfully captured the complex interactions of real-world fraud. It specifi-
cally models “synthetic identity fraud,” where criminals combine real (e.g., social security
numbers) and fake (e.g., names/emails) information to create a new, fictitious identity.
A defining characteristic of this dataset is its severe class imbalance. Fraudulent appli-
cations constitute only 1.10% of the total records (11,029 fraud instances vs. 988,971 non-
fraud instances). This severe imbalance is the central methodological challenge that informs
our strategies for model training, hyperparameter tuning, and evaluation [20].
To ensure consistent and reproducible feature engineering, a comprehensive prepro-
cessing pipeline was constructed using scikit-learn’s ColumnTransformer [21]. The raw
dataset contains 32 columns. After excluding the target label (fraud_bool), 31 potential
features remain. From these, we explicitly removed two uninformative columns, source
and month, resulting in exactly 29 input features used for modeling. These comprised
16 numerical features (e.g., income, velocity_6h, customer_age) and 13 categorical fea-
tures (e.g., payment_type, employment_status, device_os). The pipeline applied distinct
transformations to each data type:
1.
Numerical Feature Pipeline: Numerical features were processed with a two-step
sequence. First, missing values were imputed using the median value of the respective
column. Second, all numerical features were standardized using StandardScaler,
transforming them to have a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.
2.
Categorical Feature Pipeline: Categorical features were similarly processed. First,
missing values were imputed with a constant string placeholder ("__missing__").
Second, the features were transformed using OneHotEncoder, which creates a sparse
binary vector for each unique category.
This preprocessor object was fit only
The original training data, X_train, consisted of 800,000 records and 31 features. For
the deep learning approach (GRU), the 29 selected raw features were used directly as


Computation 2025, 13, 290
5 of 17
an input sequence (T = 29). For the classical models, after applying the preprocessor,
which uses 16 numerical features and 13 categorical features, the categorical variables
were expanded, meaning the final, transformed data matrix had 59 features. This resulted
from the 16 numerical features being scaled and the 13 categorical features being one-hot
encoded into 43 distinct columns. The final test set was similarly transformed from (200,000,
31) to (200,000, 59).
2.2. Experimental Setup
To facilitate rigorous model development and evaluation, the dataset was partitioned
into several distinct sets:
1.
Training and Test Split: The full dataset (N = 1,000,000) was divided into a pri-
mary training set (80%, or 800,000 records) and a final, held-out test set (20%, or
200,000 records). This split was stratified by the fraud_bool label to ensure the
1.10% positive class ratio was precisely maintained in both partitions.
2.
Hyperparameter Tuning Set: As grid-searching on 800,000 records is computationally
prohibitive, a smaller development set (N = 10,000) was created by subsampling from
the training set, again using stratification. This smaller, balanced set was used for the
GridSearchCV process for all classical machine learning models.
3.
Deep Learning Split: For the GRU model, the 800,000-record training set was further
subdivided into a new training partition (80%, or 640,000 records) and a validation
partition (20%, or 160,000 records). This split was used for the randomized hyperpa-
rameter search and for early stopping during model training.
Reproducibility and Environment
All experiments were executed in Google Colab using the standard CPU/GPU run-
times available at the time of study. Because Colab environments are ephemeral and
hardware/library versions may vary across sessions, we fixed global random seeds across
Python/numpy/scikit-learn/PyTorch and kept all preprocessing fit strictly on the train-
ing split. Hyperparameter searches were bounded by a per model family wall-clock budget
with graceful early termination, returning the incumbent best configuration. These practices
allowed re-runs in Colab to match our reported performance within expected stochastic
variation, without relying on a fixed machine image.
2.3. Model Architectures
We implemented and evaluated a suite of four classical machine learning models
and one deep learning model, each selected to represent a different class of algorithmic
approach to this classification problem.
2.3.1. Classical Machine Learning Models
Logistic Regression (LR)
Logistic regression serves as a high-performing, interpretable linear baseline [14].
Given the preprocessed feature vector x ∈Rp, the probability of the positive class (y = 1)
is modeled as
P(y = 1 | x) = σ(w⊤x + b) =
1
1 + exp
 −(w⊤x + b)

where w is the coefficient vector, b is the bias, and σ(·) is the sigmoid function. Parameters
are estimated by minimizing the regularized binary CrossEntropy loss:
L(w, b) = −1
n
n
∑
i=1
[yi log ˆyi + (1 −yi) log(1 −ˆyi)] + λ∥w∥2
2


Computation 2025, 13, 290
6 of 17
where ˆyi is the predicted probability for sample i and λ is the ℓ2 regularization strength.
Support Vector Machine (SVM)
The Support Vector Machine (SVM) is a non-linear classifier that finds an optimal
separating hyperplane by maximizing the margin between classes [15,22]. For a given
dataset {(xi, yi)}n
i=1 where yi ∈{−1, 1}, the SVM solves the following primal optimiza-
tion problem:
min
w,b,ξ
1
2∥w∥2 + C
n
∑
i=1
ξi
subject to yi(w⊤ϕ(xi) + b) ≥1 −ξi,
ξi ≥0,
∀i
where C is a regularization hyperparameter that controls the trade-off between maximizing
the margin and minimizing classification error, ξi are slack variables that permit misclassifi-
cations, and ϕ(·) is a kernel function that maps the input data into a higher-dimensional
feature space. In this study, we evaluated the Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel, defined as
K(xi, xj) = ϕ(xi)⊤ϕ(xj) = exp

−γ∥xi −xj∥2
where γ is a kernel hyperparameter.
Random Forest (RF)
Random Forest is an ensemble-based algorithm that constructs a multitude of decision
trees at training time [23] and outputs the class that is the mode of the classes’ output by
individual trees [16,24]. By introducing randomness through two mechanisms, it reduces
the high variance and overfitting propensity of individual decision trees.
1.
Bagging (Bootstrap Aggregating): Each tree in the forest is trained on a different
bootstrapped sample (a random sample with replacement) from the training data.
2.
Feature Randomness: At each node in a tree, a split is determined by searching over
only a random subset of m features (where m ≪p, the total number of features).
For a forest of B trees {Tb(x)}B
b=1, the final prediction for a binary class y ∈{0, 1} is
determined by a majority vote:
ˆy = argmax
k∈{0,1}
 
B
∑
b=1
I(Tb(x) = k)
!
where I(·) is the indicator function.
Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM)
LightGBM is a high-performance framework based on the principles of gradient
boosting [25] that builds an ensemble of decision trees sequentially [17]. Unlike Random
Forest, which builds independent trees, boosting builds trees in an additive, stage-wise
manner, where each new tree hm(x) is fit to correct the errors (residuals) of the previous
model Fm−1(x):
Fm(x) = Fm−1(x) + νhm(x)
where ν is the learning rate. The model is optimized by minimizing a loss function L
using gradient descent. At each step m, the new tree hm is fit to the negative gradient
(pseudo-residual) gm of the loss:
gm,i = −
∂L(yi, F(xi))
∂F(xi)

F=Fm−1


Computation 2025, 13, 290
7 of 17
LightGBM introduces two key innovations for efficiency: (1) Gradient-based One-Side
Sampling (GOSS), which prioritizes training on data points with larger gradients (i.e., those
that are poorly classified); (2) Exclusive Feature Bundling (EFB), which groups sparse,
mutually exclusive features to reduce dimensionality.
2.3.2. Deep Learning Model: Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) Model
To capture complex, non-linear feature interactions, we designed a custom deep
learning model (GRUSentimentModel) that treats the tabular data as an ordered sequence.
The core of this model is the Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) [18], an advanced recurrent
neural network (RNN) cell designed to mitigate the vanishing gradient problem.
Unlike the classical models which utilize sparse one-hot encoded vectors, the GRU
processes the raw feature values directly. From the 31 available raw features in the dataset,
we excluded two columns (source and month) to prevent noise, resulting in an input
sequence length of T = 29. The ordering of features in the sequence e = (e1, . . . , e29)
is deterministic, following the column index of the raw dataframe (e.g., income at index
0, name_email_similarity at index 1). This ensures that the model learns temporal-like
dependencies between specific attribute pairs across the dataset.
Given an input sequence of feature embeddings e, the GRU computes a hidden state
ht at each step t using two gates: an update gate zt and a reset gate rt.
zt = σ(Wzet + Uzht−1 + bz)
(Update Gate)
rt = σ(Wret + Urht−1 + br)
(Reset Gate)
The reset gate determines how to combine the new input with the previous memory,
and the update gate controls how much of the previous memory to keep. A candidate
hidden state ˜ht is then computed:
˜ht = tanh(Whet + Uh(rt ⊙ht−1) + bh)
Finally, the output hidden state ht is an interpolation between the previous state ht−1
and the candidate state ˜ht, controlled by the update gate zt:
ht = (1 −zt) ⊙ht−1 + zt ⊙˜ht
where σ is the sigmoid function, tanh is the hyperbolic tangent, ⊙is element-wise multipli-
cation, and W, U, b are learnable parameters. The final hidden state hT is passed through a
Dropout and a final fully-connected layer for classification.
To explicitly address the severe class imbalance during optimization, we implemented
a class-weighted training pipeline. The full training procedure, including the calculation
of inverse-frequency weights and their application to the CrossEntropy loss, is detailed in
Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Class-Weighted GRU Training Pipeline
Input: Dataset X (N × 29), Binary Labels y, Positive Class Count Npos
Hyperparameters: Epochs E, Batch Size B, Learning Rate η
Output: Optimized Model Parameters θ∗
// 1. Calculate Inverse-Frequency Class Weights
Ntotal ←Length(y)
Wpos ←Ntotal/(2 × Npos)
Define Loss Function L( ˆy, y) = CrossEntropy( ˆy, y, weight = [1.0, Wpos])


Computation 2025, 13, 290
8 of 17
Algorithm 1 Cont.
// 2. Training Loop
Initialize GRU parameters θ (Embedding Emb, Hidden H, Output Linear)
for epoch e = 1 to E do
for batch (xb, yb) in (X, y) do
S ←ConstructSequence(xb) {Shape: (B, 29)}
E ←Emb(S)
ht ←GRU(E)
ˆy ←Linear(ht)
J ←L( ˆy, yb) {Apply Class-Weighted Loss}
θ ←θ −η∇θ J
end for
end for
Return θ
2.4. Model Training and Hyperparameter Tuning
All models were optimized using strategies appropriate for their architecture and the
severe class imbalance.
1.
Classical Models (LR, SVM, RF, LGBM): These models were tuned using an exhaustive
GridSearchCV with 3-fold cross-validation, performed on the N = 10,000 stratified
development set. The primary scoring metric used for hyperparameter selection was
the validation-weighted F1-score (f1_weighted).
2.
GRU Model: The deep learning model was tuned using a randomized search
(niter = 10) on the 640k/160k train/validation split. The search optimized key
hyperparameters including embedding_dim (150–250), hidden_dim (256–768), and
learning_rate (10−4–10−3). The best configuration was likewise selected using the
validation weighted F1-score (f1_weighted) on the development set, consistent with
the classical models.
3.
Imbalance Handling: This was the primary focus of training.
•
For classical models, the class_weight=’balanced’ parameter was included in
the grid search, which automatically adjusts weights inversely proportional to
class frequencies.
•
For the GRU model, this was implemented by calculating class weights on the
training set and passing them to the nn.CrossEntropyLoss(weight=...) func-
tion. This penalizes misclassifications of the minority (fraud) class more heavily.
To facilitate complete reproduction of these results and allow other researchers to
build upon this work, the full source code—including the preprocessing pipeline, class-
weight implementation, and model training scripts—are available on the first author’s
GitHub (https://github.com/wn-nwN/fraud-detection-project-Nov2025, accessed on
1 December 2025).
2.5. Evaluation Metrics
Given the severe class imbalance, accuracy is a misleading metric [20]. Our evaluation
focused on a suite of metrics that provide a nuanced view of model performance on both
the minority and majority classes [19]. For a binary classification problem, we define true
positives (TPs), false positives (FPs), and false negatives (FNs).
Precision =
TP
TP + FP
Precision measures the proportion of positive (fraud) predictions that were correct.
High precision is critical to minimizing operational costs from false alarms.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
9 of 17
Recall =
TP
TP + FN
Recall (or True Positive Rate) measures the proportion of actual fraud cases that the
model successfully identifies. High recall is critical for minimizing risk and preventing
fraudulent transactions.
F1 = 2 · Precision · Recall
Precision + Recall
The F1-score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall, providing a single score that
balances this trade-off [19]. We report the weighted F1-score as a primary metric, which
accounts for the class imbalance.
For all point-estimate metrics (precision, recall, F1), we utilize the standard classifi-
cation threshold of τ = 0.5. While we acknowledge that operational thresholds in fraud
detection are typically tuned to specific cost constraints (as discussed in Section 4), utilizing
a fixed, neutral threshold of 0.5 allows for a consistent, “ceteris paribus” comparison of the
intrinsic probability distributions generated by the different architectures.
Furthermore, we assess the model’s ability to distinguish between classes using the
Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve and its corresponding Area Under the
Curve (AUC).
TPR =
TP
TP + FN,
FPR =
FP
FP + TN
The AUC represents the probability that the model will rank a randomly chosen
positive sample higher than a randomly chosen negative sample.
To assess the stability of our point-estimate metrics, we implemented a bootstrapping
procedure (N = 1000 iterations) to compute the 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) for both
the weighted F1-Score and the AUC on the test set.
2.6. Feature Importance Analysis
To ensure model interpretability and understand the key drivers of fraud, we em-
ployed a combination of model-specific and model-agnostic techniques.
1.
Coefficient-Based (LR): For the Logistic Regression model, the absolute values of the fit-
ted coef_ corresponding to each feature were used as direct measures of importance.
2.
Tree-Based
(RF,
LGBM):
For
the
ensemble
tree
models,
the
native
feature_importances_ attribute was used. This score is typically based on Gini
impurity reduction (RF) or gain (LGBM) aggregated across all trees in the ensemble.
3.
Permutation Importance (SVM, GRU): For the non-linear ‘rbf’ SVM and the ‘black-box’
GRU model, we used permutation feature importance. This model-agnostic technique
measures the decrease in the model’s F1-score when the values of a single feature are
randomly shuffled. This procedure was executed for 6–10 repeats on a 3000-record
subsample for computational efficiency. For the GRU, this was performed on the orig-
inal features (e.g., income) before the embedding stage to maintain interpretability.
3. Results
This section presents the empirical results of the machine learning and deep learn-
ing models, evaluated on the held-out test set (N = 200,000).
The analysis is pre-
sented in two parts. First, we examine the performance of the classical models as op-
timized by the GridSearchCV process, which used f1_weighted as its primary scoring
metric. Second, we analyze the performance of models specifically re-trained using the
class_weight=’balanced’ technique to address the severe class imbalance.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
10 of 17
3.1. Hyperparameter Optimization and Tuning Cost
Table 1 summarizes the best settings identified by cross-validated search (see
Section 2) and the wall-clock time required to complete tuning for each model. The
classical baselines converged quickly (5.4–46.6 s): the SVM favored an RBF kernel with
C = 10 and γ = scale, while Logistic Regression selected L2 regularization with the
lbfgs solver. For tree/boosting models, the optimizer preferred using class weighting
(class_weight=balanced); Random Forest settled on a moderate depth (max_depth = 10)
with 200 trees, and LightGBM retained a compact configuration (num_leaves = 31,
learning_rate = 0.1, 100 estimators).
In contrast, the GRU required substantially more compute to tune (4118.1 s), with
the selected setting using an embedding dimension ≈187, a large hidden size ≈734, a
low learning rate (4.5 × 10−4), and eight epochs. This was ∼763× slower than Logistic
Regression, ∼189× slower than SVM, and ∼88–144× slower than the tree/boosting models,
reflecting the higher search cost of neural architectures relative to classical methods.
Table 1. Optimal hyperparameters and tuning times for all models.
Model
Optimal Hyperparameters
Tuning Time (s)
SVM
C: 10; class_weight: None;
gamma: ‘scale’; kernel: ‘rbf’
21.8
Logistic Regression
C: 1; class_weight: None;
penalty: ‘l2’; solver: ‘lbfgs’
5.4
Random Forest
class_weight: ‘balanced’; max_depth: 10;
min_samples_leaf: 4; min_samples_split: 10;
n_estimators: 200
46.6
LightGBM
class_weight: ‘balanced’; learning_rate: 0.1;
max_depth: −1; min_child_samples: 10;
n_estimators: 100; num_leaves: 31
28.6
GRU
embedding_dim: 186.9; hidden_dim: 733.8;
lr: 0.00045; epochs: 8
4118.1
Overall, tuning time spans nearly three orders of magnitude across models, which has
practical implications for iteration speed and deployment. When compute or turnaround
time is constrained, the linear, SVM, and tree/boosting families provide more favorable
tuning efficiency than the GRU, while still allowing targeted adjustments (e.g., class weight-
ing for imbalanced data). All timings were obtained under the same environment; details
are provided in Methods.
3.2. Analysis of Model Performance
The results reveal two distinct patterns of model behavior, highlighting the critical
impact of class imbalance and the choice of loss function.
3.2.1. Performance Limitations of Classical Models
As shown in Table 2, the four classical machine learning models (SVM, LR, RF, LGBM)
all appear to perform exceptionally well, with weighted precision, recall, and F1-scores at or
above 0.98. However, these metrics are highly misleading. Because the models were tuned
using validation-weighted F1-score (f1_weighted) as the hyperparameter selection metric,
a quantity dominated by the 98.9% majority (non-fraud) class, they learned to achieve a
high score by simply predicting “non-fraud” for nearly every case.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
11 of 17
Table 2. Overall performance of all models on the test set.
Model
Weighted Average
AUC (95% CI)
Precision
Recall
F1 (95% CI)
SVM
0.98
0.99
0.9835 [0.9827, 0.9841]
0.7470 [0.7365, 0.7575]
Logistic Regression
0.98
0.99
0.9836 [0.9829, 0.9843]
0.8484 [0.8397, 0.8572]
Random Forest
0.98
0.99
0.9838 [0.9831, 0.9845]
0.8554 [0.8473, 0.8633]
LightGBM
0.98
0.99
0.9834 [0.9827, 0.9840]
0.8142 [0.8052, 0.8231]
GRU
0.99
0.83
0.8971 [0.8960, 0.8982]
0.8800 [0.8300, 0.8970]
It is crucial to note that for Random Forest and LightGBM, the hyperparame-
ter search explicitly selected class_weight=‘balanced’ (see Table 1).
Despite this
mechanism—which increases penalties for minority class errors—the models still con-
verged on a high-precision/low-recall solution. This underscores a critical finding: simply
enabling a “balanced” mode in standard libraries is often insufficient to overcome the
inertia of the majority class if the global validation metric (here, f1_weighted) does not
explicitly prioritize recall.
This limited effectiveness to solve the practical problem is confirmed in Table 3. The
Class 1 recall is minimal: the SVM and LR models detect only 1% of fraudulent transactions,
while the RF and LGBM models detect only 6%. Despite achieving high overall AUCs,
these models are insufficient for deployment as they fail to identify the target class.
Table 3. Minority fraud class (Class 1) performance of all models.
Model
Precision (Class 1)
Recall (Class 1)
F1-score (Class 1)
SVM
0.16
0.01
0.02
Logistic Regression
0.46
0.01
0.01
Random Forest
0.24
0.06
0.10
LightGBM
0.19
0.06
0.09
GRU
0.05
0.78
0.09
3.2.2. The Precision–Recall Trade-Off in the GRU Model
In stark contrast, the Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) model, which was trained with a
class-weighted loss function, successfully learned to identify the minority class. This is
immediately visible in Table 2, where its weighted recall (0.83) is much lower than the other
models, indicating it is not just predicting the majority class.
Table 3 shows the true result: the GRU model successfully identified 78% of all
fraudulent transactions (recall = 0.78), a substantial improvement over the classical models.
Furthermore, its AUC of 0.8800 was the highest of all models, confirming its superior ability
to distinguish between the two classes.
However, this success in detection reveals the central challenge of this dataset. The
high recall was achieved at the cost of extremely low precision. With a Class 1 precision of
0.05, the model generates approximately 19 false positives for every one true positive it
finds. This demonstrates a classic precision–recall trade-off, where the model is effective at
finding fraud but creates a significant operational burden in doing so.
3.3. Operational Impact and Workload Analysis
To contextualize operations, we report the implied review load at the chosen threshold.
With Class 1 precision = 0.05, the ratio of false positives to true positives is
FPs per TP = 1 −Precision
Precision
≈19,


Computation 2025, 13, 290
12 of 17
i.e., roughly 19 alerts to review for each correctly detected fraud.
To quantify this for a business context, consider a financial institution processing
N = 1,000,000 applications with the dataset’s 1.1% fraud prevalence (11,000 fraud cases).
•
Detection Volume: With 78% recall, the model correctly identifies 8580 fraud cases.
•
False Alert Volume: At 5% precision, these 8580 cases represent only 1/20th of the
total flag volume. The model generates approximately 163,000 false positives.
•
Total Review Queue: The total volume of alerts requiring human review would
be ≈171,600.
•
Staffing Implication: Assuming a fraud analyst can review 50 cases per day, this model
configuration would require approximately 13–14 full-time analysts working for a full
year (260 working days) just to clear the backlog for one million applications.
This calculation explicitly demonstrates the resource cost mentioned by the reviewers:
high recall comes with a substantial labor overhead.
3.4. Feature Importance and Model Interpretation
To understand the predictive logic of the models, we computed feature importances
for all five architectures (Figures 1–5). For LR, RF, and LGBM, we used their native model-
based importances (coefficient magnitude or Gini/gain). For the non-linear SVM and the
GRU, we used permutation importance based on the drop in the F1-score.
The most significant finding is the high degree of consensus across all models. Despite
their vastly different architectures and performance, all models identified the same core set
of features as the most predictive. The feature name_email_similarity was the undisputed
top predictor for all five models, often by a significant margin (see Figures 1a and 2a,
etc.). To clarify, this feature represents a normalized string distance metric (ranging from
0 to 1) between the applicant’s provided name and their email user handle. A low score
indicates a mismatch (e.g., “John Doe” using “hacker123@email.com”), which is a primary
indicator of synthetic identity fraud where criminals use burner email addresses with stolen
personal details.
(a) Top 20 for Feature Importance
(b) Cumulative Importance
Figure 1. SVM feature importance (permutation).
This consensus extends to other top-tier features. The high importance of velocity_24h
and velocity_6h is similarly logical; these features track the count of applications associ-
ated with the same device or IP address within a 6 h or 24 h sliding window. High values
are a proxy for automated “bot” attacks or “bust-out” fraud schemes where criminals
attempt to open multiple accounts in rapid succession. The income feature is also a key dif-
ferentiator, likely because fraudulent applications may use anomalously high or low values
that deviate from the patterns of legitimate applicants. The consistency of these findings
provides strong evidence that all models, regardless of their success, are identifying the
correct, fundamental signals in the data.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
13 of 17
(a) Top 20 for Feature Importance
(b) Cumulative Importance
Figure 2. Logistic Regression feature importance (absolute coefficients).
(a) Top 20 Feature Importance
(b) Cumulative Importance
Figure 3. Random Forest Feature Importance (Gini).
(a) Top 20 for Feature Importance
(b) Cumulative Importance
Figure 4. LightGBM feature importance (gain).
(a) Top 20 for Feature Importance
(b) Cumulative Importance
Figure 5. GRU feature importance (permutation).


Computation 2025, 13, 290
14 of 17
This analysis provides a critical insight when combined with the performance results
from Section 3. The performance gap of the classical models (LR, SVM, RF, LGBM) was
not a failure of feature identification; they correctly identified the same predictive features
as the successful GRU model. Their failure was one of objective. This is, in itself, an
important finding: the feature importance plots for the classical models effectively show us
the hallmarks of a non-fraudulent application.
Summary
Taken together with the performance analysis, these attributions indicate that the
classical models did not fail to discover informative signals; rather, tuning for f1_weighted
as the selection criterion under 1.10% prevalence biased them toward confident non-
fraud predictions, whereas the class-weighted GRU leveraged the same signals to recover
minority-class recall at the expected cost in precision.
4. Discussion
The empirical results of this study provide a clear and nuanced narrative regarding the
application of machine learning to a severely imbalanced fraud detection task. Our findings
are discussed in three parts: an interpretation of the primary precision–recall trade-off, the
practical implications for real-world systems, and the limitations of this study.
4.1. Interpretation of Key Findings
The central finding of this paper is not simply that one model outperformed another,
but that the choice of optimization objective is profoundly more important than the choice
of model architecture.
The four classical models (SVM, LR, RF, LGBM) were not inherently “bad.” On the
contrary, their high AUC scores (see Table 2) and their feature importance plots (Figures 2–4)
prove they were highly effective at one task: identifying the correct features. The feature
importance analysis shows a clear consensus: all models, including the GRU, agreed that
features like name_email_similarity and velocity_24h were the most predictive. The
failure of the classical models was one of objective. Tuned using f1_weighted as the
validation selection metric, a quantity dominated by the 98.9% majority class, the models
learned it was statistically “safer” to ignore the rare fraud signals and become expert
detectors of non-fraud. Their resulting 1–6% fraud recall is a direct and predictable outcome
of this objective mismatch. This confirms the warnings found in earlier surveys [10]
regarding the dangers of accuracy-driven optimization, but extends those findings by
quantifying exactly how much ‘architecture’ matters when the objective is misaligned.
The GRU model, in contrast, was a statistical success precisely because its objective
(a class-weighted loss) was aligned with the problem. It was explicitly instructed to find
the rare class, and it did, achieving a 78% recall. This confirms that the predictive signals
for fraud do exist in the data and that a deep learning architecture can effectively leverage
them. However, this statistical success immediately exposed the true challenge of this
domain: a severe precision–recall trade-off [19].
4.2. Practical Implications: An Operational Bottleneck
The GRU model’s performance—78% recall at 5% precision—perfectly illustrates the
difference between a statistical solution and a practical one. While identifying 78% of fraud
is a significant achievement, the 5% precision is operationally untenable in many business
contexts. This metric implies that for every 100 applications flagged for manual review,
95 are false positives. This would overwhelm a human investigation team and likely be
more costly than the fraud it prevents.


Computation 2025, 13, 290
15 of 17
This necessitates a shift from purely performance-based evaluation to economic cost
considerations, as demonstrated by Vanini et al. [12]. In their work, integrating economic
costs into the model selection process led to substantial loss reductions by optimizing for
low false-positive rates. Similarly, our findings suggest that a bank cannot simply deploy
the “best AUC” model; they must determine an “optimal” threshold based on their specific
risk appetite and regulatory tolerance.
For instance, a regulated institution facing heavy fines for money laundering (AML)
violations might tolerate the high operational cost of the 5% precision model to ensure
maximum recall. Conversely, a FinTech platform focused on frictionless user experience
might prefer a stricter threshold to reduce customer friction. In a hypothetical scenario
used for illustration, such an institution might accept a lower recall of 50% in exchange for
a precision of 20%. This alignment of model thresholds with institutional strategy resonates
with broader finance research on risk behavior, where the salience of specific risks drives
decision-making [26]. Ultimately, the “right” model is not defined by the F1-score, but by
the institution’s capacity to absorb the cost of intervention versus the cost of fraud losses.
The practical value of this GRU model, therefore, is not as a final decision-maker.
Instead, it should be viewed as an exceptionally effective triage and filtering tool. It
successfully reduced the problem from 1 million “unknown” applications to a much
smaller, high-risk pool, which can then be fed into a more specialized (or costly) second-
stage analysis. This suggests a hybrid approach, where the high-recall/low-precision model
serves as the first-pass filter for a system designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the
operational cost of false positives.
4.3. Limitations and Future Work
This study’s findings, while clear, are bounded by several methodological choices that
open avenues for future research.
1.
Choice of Imbalance Technique: We focused exclusively on one technique: class-
weighted loss. This is a powerful method, but it is not the only one. Future work
should compare our GRU’s performance against other strategies, such as algorithm-
level approaches (e.g., Focal Loss [8]) or data-level approaches (e.g., SMOTE oversam-
pling or undersampling the majority class).
2.
Deep Learning Architectures: The GRU, a recurrent model, was used to process
tabular data as a sequence. While effective, it is not a traditional architecture for
this data type. A valuable next step would be to benchmark this model against
transformers designed specifically for tabular data, such as a TabTransformer, to see if
attention-based mechanisms can better model the feature interactions.
3.
Generalizability and Fraud Prevalence: Our analysis relies on the BAF dataset with a
fixed 1.1% fraud prevalence. While this is representative of many onboarding scenar-
ios, findings may differ in domains with moderately higher prevalence (e.g., credit
card fraud at 5–10%) or different feature distributions. Future studies should sim-
ulate varying prevalence rates (e.g., by subsampling negatives) to determine the
“break-even” point where classical models might recover performance.
4.
Alternative Strategies (Ensembles): We treated models as competitors, but in practice,
they can be collaborators. A promising avenue for future work is to explore ensemble
or two-stage architectures. For example, the high-recall GRU could serve as a “nomi-
nator” to flag potential fraud, while a high-precision Random Forest could serve as
a “validator” to filter out false positives. Such hybrid approaches could potentially
optimize the precision–recall trade-off better than any single model.
5.
Threshold Tuning: Our results report metrics at the default 0.5 classification threshold.
Given the severe precision–recall trade-off, this is not the optimal threshold for de-


Computation 2025, 13, 290
16 of 17
ployment. A critical next step, which we recommend for any practical application, is
to analyze the full precision–recall curve (which is more informative than the ROC
curve in imbalanced settings [9,20]). By “moving the threshold,” an organization
could select a different operating point, for example, hypothetically accepting a lower
recall of 50% in exchange for a more manageable precision of 20%.
6.
Analysis of False Positives: The 5% precision of the GRU model is not merely
a performance deficit; it is a source of data. A qualitative analysis of the false
positives—the legitimate cases that “look” fraudulent to the model—could reveal
new insights, identify feature engineering opportunities, or highlight biases in
the dataset [27].
4.4. Concluding Remarks
Taken together, our results show that in extremely imbalanced onboarding settings the
decisive levers are what we optimize and where we operate, rather than model family per se.
On the BAF benchmark, standard f1_weighted selection produced classical baselines with
superficially strong aggregate scores yet negligible fraud recall, whereas a class-weighted
GRU recovered minority detection (78% recall) at the expected cost in precision (5%). For
practice, this reframes fraud modeling as a joint objective–threshold design problem: align
the training objective with minority-class capture and set the operating point to the review
budget and risk tolerance. For research, it motivates reporting precision–recall behavior and
simple workload proxies (e.g., FPs per TP) alongside aggregate metrics to make operational
trade-offs explicit. This clarity—of objective, operating point, and reporting—provides a
principled path from statistical performance to deployable value.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.X.; Methodology, W.S. and Q.S.; Software, W.S. and Q.S.;
Validation, Q.M.; Investigation, Y.G.; Resources, T.Q.; Writing—original draft, S.X.; Writing—review
and editing, S.X. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: The original data presented in the study are openly available in Kaggle
at https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sgpjesus/bank-account-fraud-dataset-neurips-2022 (accessed
on 11 November 2025).
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1.
Aite-Novarica Group. Synthetic Identity Fraud: The Elephant in the Room; Technical Report; Aite-Novarica Group: Boston, MA,
USA, 2021.
2.
Hernandez Aros, L.; Bustamante Molano, L.X.; Gutierrez-Portela, F.; Moreno Hernandez, J.J.; Rodríguez Barrero, M.S. Financial
fraud detection through the application of machine learning techniques: A literature review. Humanit. Soc. Sci. Commun. 2024,
11, 1130. [CrossRef]
3.
Aslam, F.; Hunjra, A.I.; Ftiti, Z.; Louhichi, W.; Shams, T. Insurance fraud detection: Evidence from artificial intelligence and
machine learning. Res. Int. Bus. Financ. 2022, 62, 101744. [CrossRef]
4.
Liu, Y.; Shen, X.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, Z.; Tian, Y.; Dai, J.; Cao, Y. A systematic review of machine learning approaches for detecting
deceptive activities on social media: Methods, challenges, and biases. Int. J. Data Sci. Anal. 2025, 20, 6157–6182. [CrossRef]
5.
Tian, Y.; Xu, S.; Cao, Y.; Wang, Z.; Wei, Z. An empirical comparison of machine learning and deep learning models for automated
fake news detection. Mathematics 2025, 13, 2086. [CrossRef]
6.
Xu, S.; Cao, Y.; Wang, Z.; Tian, Y. Fraud detection in online transactions: Toward hybrid supervised–unsupervised learning
pipelines. In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Electronic Communication and Artificial Intelligence (ICECAI
2025), Chengdu, China, 20–22 June 2025.
7.
Baisholan, N.; Dietz, J.E.; Gnatyuk, S.; Turdalyuly, M.; Matson, E.T.; Baisholanova, K. A Systematic Review of Machine Learning
in Credit Card Fraud Detection Under Original Class Imbalance. Computers 2025, 14, 437. [CrossRef]


Computation 2025, 13, 290
17 of 17
8.
Boabang, F.; Goussiatiner, S.A. An Enhanced Focal Loss Function to Mitigate Class Imbalance in Auto Insurance Fraud Detection.
arXiv 2025, arXiv:2508.02283. [CrossRef]
9.
Saito, T.; Rehmsmeier, M. The precision–recall plot is more informative than the ROC plot when evaluating binary classifiers on
imbalanced datasets. PLoS ONE 2015, 10, e0118432. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
10.
Ali, A.; Shukor, A.R.; Omar, S.H.; Abdu, S. Financial fraud detection based on machine learning: A systematic literature review.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 9637. [CrossRef]
11.
West, J.; Bhattacharya, M. Intelligent financial fraud detection: A comprehensive review.
Comput. Secur. 2016, 57, 47–66.
[CrossRef]
12.
Vanini, P.; Rossi, S.; Zvizdi´c, E.; Domenig, T. Online payment fraud: From anomaly detection to risk management. Financ. Innov.
2023, 9, 66. [CrossRef]
13.
Jesus, S.; Pombal, J.; Alves, D.; Cruz, A.; Saleiro, P.; Ribeiro, R.P.; Gama, J.; Bizarro, P. Turning the Tables: Biased, Imbalanced,
Dynamic Tabular Datasets for ML Evaluation. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems; Curran Associates, Inc.: Red
Hook, NY, USA, 2022.
14.
Hosmer, D.W.; Lemeshow, S.; Sturdivant, R.X. Applied Logistic Regression, 3rd ed.; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: New York, NY,
USA, 2013.
15.
Van Craen, A.; Breyer, M.; Pflüger, D. PLSSVM—Parallel Least Squares Support Vector Machine. Softw. Impacts 2022, 14, 100343.
[CrossRef]
16.
Manzali, Y.; Elfar, M. Random Forest Pruning Techniques: A Recent Review. Oper. Res. Forum 2023, 4, 43. [CrossRef]
17.
Ke, G.; Meng, Q.; Finley, T.; Wang, T.; Chen, W.; Ma, W.; Ye, Q.; Liu, T.Y. LightGBM: A highly efficient gradient boosting decision
tree. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), Long Beach,
CA, USA, 4–9 December 2017; pp. 3149–3157.
18.
Cho, K.; van Merriënboer, B.; Gulcehre, C.; Bahdanau, D.; Bougares, F.; Schwenk, H.; Bengio, Y. Learning Phrase Representations
Using RNN Encoder–Decoder for Statistical Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), Doha, Qatar, 25–29 October 2014; pp. 1724–1734.
19.
Powers, D.M.W. Evaluation: From precision, recall and F-measure to ROC, informedness, markedness and correlation. J. Mach.
Learn. Technol. 2011, 2, 37–63.
20.
Davis, J.; Goadrich, M. The relationship between Precision-Recall and ROC curves. In Proceedings of the 23rd International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 25–29 June 2006; pp. 233–240.
21.
Pedregosa, F.; Varoquaux, G.; Gramfort, A.; Michel, V.; Thirion, B.; Grisel, O.; Blondel, M.; Prettenhofer, P.; Weiss, R.; Dubourg, V.; et al.
Scikit-learn: Machine Learning in Python. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 2011, 12, 2825–2830.
22.
Cortes, C.; Vapnik, V. Support-Vector Networks. Mach. Learn. 1995, 20, 273–297. [CrossRef]
23.
Breiman, L.; Friedman, J.H.; Olshen, R.A.; Stone, C.J. Classification and Regression Trees; Wadsworth & Brooks/Cole Advanced
Books & Software: Monterey, CA, USA, 1984.
24.
Breiman, L. Random forests. Mach. Learn. 2001, 45, 5–32. [CrossRef]
25.
Friedman, J.H. Greedy function approximation: A gradient boosting machine. Ann. Stat. 2001, 29, 1189–1232. [CrossRef]
26.
Mugerman, Y.; Steinberg, N.; Wiener, Z. The exclamation mark of Cain: Risk attitude and mutual fund flows. J. Bank. Financ.
2022, 134, 106332. [CrossRef]
27.
Cao, Y.; Dai, J.; Wang, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Shen, X.; Liu, Y.; Tian, Y. Machine learning approaches for depression detection on social
media: A systematic review of biases and methodological challenges. J. Behav. Data Sci. 2025, 5, 67–102. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
